---
title: Strategy_for_Spanish_Civil_War
---

::: mw-parser-output
[Template:Scenario
guides](/wiki/index.php?title=Template:Scenario_guides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Scenario guides (page does not exist)"){.new}

[![Shieldspa.jpg](/images/c/ca/Shieldspa.jpg){file-height="70"
file-width="44" url="/images/c/ca/Shieldspa.jpg" decoding="async"
height="70" loading="lazy"
width="44"}](/wiki/File:Shieldspa.jpg){.image}
[![Vs.jpg](/images/9/93/Vs.jpg){file-height="70" file-width="44"
url="/images/9/93/Vs.jpg" decoding="async" height="70" loading="lazy"
width="44"}](/wiki/File:Vs.jpg){.image}
[![Shieldspr.jpg](/images/3/36/Shieldspr.jpg){file-height="70"
file-width="44" url="/images/3/36/Shieldspr.jpg" decoding="async"
height="70" loading="lazy"
width="44"}](/wiki/File:Shieldspr.jpg){.image}

## [ Republican Strategy ]{#Republican_Strategy .mw-headline}

Start out by sending all of your garrisons to the provinces around
Seville, so you can bring your mobile troops north to face the
Nationalists. Also send your navy to the Baleric Islands to maintain
your toehold there. Remember that you won\'t be producing any more units
or getting reinforcements, so what you have is what you get.

The best strategy in the north is to link up with Oviedo and try to
surround Burgos and La Coruna. If you capture La Coruna, then other
Nationalist areas will be cut off from supply. Your infantry should be
put into the push in the north, while your tanks (they\'re not much good
in the mountains anyway) hold the line north of Madrid.

Generally, the Nationalist strategy is pretty straightforward: sever
Oviedo from the rest of Republican territory, capture Madrid, and burst
out from Seville. The trick is to maintain the initiative, focusing on
one front at a time to keep the Nationalists from doing what they do
best. Also, because you\'ll be using most of your military on the front,
it may be a good idea to do whatever necessary to prevent the two
revolts which will inevitably happen (although I allowed the Basque
revolt because I had troops in that province, but I wouldn\'t recommend
relying on chance to avert revolt).

After conquering the north, focus on taking out the remaining
Nationalist pockets. The unfortunate result of winning the northern war,
however, means that you have to either rapidly capture Seville (the new
Nationalist capital) or wear them down in a war of attrition. If you
can\'t take Seville right away after defeating the Nationalists in the
north, don\'t bother. It's better to just take their remaining VPs in
Africa and the Balerics and settle for your marginal victory than to
hammer away and let them keep everything else (and be bored for the last
month or so of the scenario).
:::
